So I really wanna just build on that
last piece a little bit more with
something that's a bit of an aside.
But it's only an aside because it's so
important that it doesn't just
apply to this particular segment,
it applies throughout the people
analytics piece of your course, right.
And that is about measuring outcomes
because in any one of the modules
that you've been listening to and learning
from in terms of people analytics,
you will have heard a lot about different
kinds of outcomes that we care about.
Now we were just talking about outcomes,
which is why I'm gonna connect it here,
but again, it applies across the modules.
So the main message here can
be summarized in a nutshell,
which is basically garbage in,
garbage out.
So the idea here is that if
you don't have good measures,
you can plug whatever you like
into your statistical program, and
it can generate lots and
lots of lovely results.
But your results will mean nothing
if those original measures were bad.
Right?
So if you put garbage in,
in the form of poor measures,
whatever results you get are really
gonna be meaningless and
may actually be harmful if
you try to act on them.
So it becomes very, very important
in any form of analytics and
particularly people analytics
what we are talking about today,
be able to measure your
variables really well.
And we're focusing here on outcome
variables, although I've already talked
about those network variables
that we might care about and
how to measure them really well.
But let's think about outcome variables
here because that's gonna apply again
across the field of people analytics.
So if we look at how do collaboration
patterns matter for important outcomes?
That question we were
just talking about and
we have well our five building blocks in
terms of networks, we discussed a lot in
segment two how to actually map
those building blocks effectively.
Actually we talked a lot in segment three
on how to actually map those building
blocks effectively.
Now we're gonna focus on how to connect
those to individual outcomes and as we
were pretty just talking about we're going
to focus particularly on performance.
So we've already discussed a little bit,
we need to map network attributes,
network features to performance but
what I just want to emphasize is
the importance of trying to measure
performance well and what that takes.
So let's think about
measuring performance.
The question is,
what is a strong measure of performance?
I have just picked performance, but
this could be many other things.
It could be satisfaction.
It could be commitment.
It could be intention turnover.
What's a strong measure of anything?
Here we're gonna use performance.
There are several key criteria
whenever you're trying to
measure anything in order to get away from
the garbage in, garbage out scenario and
have really good measures that
can give you really good results.
The first is you have to get a measure
that's at the right level of analysis,
so if I'm trying to measure
individual performance,
I have to make sure that what I'm
measuring in terms of performance
is actually an individual
performance measure.
It's not something that was generated by
the whole unit or the whole group and
the individual didn't really
have that much control over it.
It needs to be at the right
level of analysis if I'm
trying to measure individual performance.
The second and third criteria
are reliability and validity.
And if you've taken any
measurement type courses or
been involved in this field at all, you'll
have heard of reliability and validity.
Reliability means are your assessments,
are your measures, consistent?
And that might mean over time and
it might mean across raters or
across people that
are taking the measures.
The third criteria here is validity,
which means are the assessments accurate?
Are your measures accurate?
Are they measuring what they're
actually supposed to measure?
So if you're measuring performance
in terms of reliability,
you need to say well if I measure this
person's performance in the morning,
and I happen to look at how well they're
performing in the morning, am I gonna get
the same result if I measure their
performance in the late afternoon?
Because if not, it's not a very reliable
measure of their performance, right?
Maybe it's their typing speed, right?
So if their typing speed in the morning
is different from their typing
speed in the afternoon,
it's not a very reliable measure.
So we need measures that are consistent
over time and across raters.
In terms of performance,
if you're looking at validity,
is it actually capturing
their performance?
So if you're measuring typing speed,
is that an aspect
of the performance that's actually
important and relevant to the task?
Or are you actually trying to measure
something about how good they are at
writing?
And typing speed is really
not a good measure of that.
So, when we talk about reliability and
validity,
we often use this kind of bullseye motif.
And it's helpful just for
understanding the difference between them.
So something that's reliable again has to
be consistent over time and across raters.
In other words you're hitting the same
spot on the bullseye over and over again.
That makes it reliable, but
that doesn't necessarily make it valid.
For something to be valid, you need
to be hitting the bullseye, right, or
you need to be sort of equally
distributed around the bullseye, so
there's no sort of bias in the way
you're hitting the target.
So a measure that's valid but
not reliable will be sort of hitting,
it's equally distributed
around the bullseye, but
it's not very reliable, you're
hitting different points all the time.
Neither reliable nor valid, you're kind
of biased to one part of the target, and
both reliable and valid you're
consistently hitting the bullseye.
This is just a little way that
we sometimes use to help us
keep the difference between reliability
and validity separate in our minds.
But going back to these criteria for
measuring performance, so there
has to be the right level of analysis,
has to be reliable, has to be valid.
The next three criteria,
it has to be comparable.
So, if you're measuring performance across
lots of people or across lots of units or
lots of teams say, you need a measure
that's comparable for all those people.
You can't measure everybody
on different criteria, right?
It needs to be comparable.
It needs to be comprehensive, in other
words you need to have that measure for
everybody whose performance
you're trying to measure.
And it needs to be cost-effective usually.
If it's very expensive to collect
performance measures you could have
the best performance measure in
the world that involves, you know,
really following people's performance over
time, and monitoring it, and observing it,
and all sorts of great stuff.
And it can be a really great, reliable,
valid measure of performance, but
it's just not cost-effective, so
we also have to kind of come up with
measures that are relatively
cost-effective.
And then finally, causality.
So in terms of causality, the measure
of performance, if you want it to be
an outcome variable, you have to
be able to make a plausible claim,
a plausible argument for
why it is actually an outcome variable.
In other words, for why something
else causes that outcome variable.
Now I'm not going to go into
that in more detail here.
It's a very big and
a very important topic.
If you want to claim that this
kind of network configuration or
this kind of career path for
example affects your performance,
you need to be able to make causal claims.
The topic of causal claims is
gonna be covered much more depth
by Matthew Bidwell in his module where
he'll talk much more about causality.
So that's all I'm gonna say about it here,
other than that, it's a really big and
important issue.
Okay, so when we have these criteria for
what's a strong measure of performance and
we're thinking about what is the sets
of network attributes that predict
an individual outcome like performance,
again, lots of different performance
measures we could be choosing between, but
we want to use these criteria to
help us decide which are good.
Is sales per quarter a good
measure of performance?
Well, you know sales per quarter may not
be at the right level of analysis if it's
the whole unit or the whole team and
you're trying to measure
individual outcomes.
If it's a whole team that produces sales,
it's not so good.
Cost savings, same thing.
Maybe cost savings are a result of
decisions are taken somewhere else in
the organization and not really a good
measure of individual performance.
Self reported ratings.
We sometimes have to rely on, in surveys,
people measuring their own performance.
We know there's a lot of problems
with self reported ratings.
They don't tend to be very reliable or
valid.
Manager reported ratings might be better,
but
there can be problems with bias there too.
May not be very cost effective
to collect that kind of data.
May not be very comparable
across managers.
Measures like bonuses often capture
something quite different in terms of
the bonus pool, for example, and
don't really capture performance.
So again,
there's a measure of validity there.
So, any measure of performance that you
can get is gonna have some problems, but
understanding what those are and trying to
apply these criteria for what's a strong
measure of performance or a strong measure
of any outcome that you care about
is gonna be critical to avoiding that
garbage in garbage out kind of trap.
Okay if the measure is poor in the first
place, the results are gonna be very,
you can't trust them.
It's not worth it.
You gotta have good measures going in.
So the role of people analytics again,
people analytics is a data driven
approach to managing people at work.
But, and again this applies across
all the modules here, collecting and
analyzing high quality data
is absolutely critical.
If you don't have good data, none of
the rest of it's going to matter at all,
gotta have good data.
So we have now had a chance to think about
how to evaluate collaboration networks in
terms of how can we compare collaboration
attributes and how collaboration
features of the network across people and
how can we map that and connect that
to outcomes that we might care about
like their individual performance.
In our last segment,
we're gonna think about,
how can we intervene to make changes in
collaboration networks based on the kind
of data that we've collected and analyzed?